# K-increase-Nmixture-estimates
Dennis, Morgan and Ridout (2015)  have shown that the N-mixture model can produce infinite estimates of abundance (lambda-hat), particularly when working with a limited number of sampling occasions and low detection probability.   
Fitting a count model using the package unmarked (for example) requires to choose a value for K. K is the integer upper index of integration for N-mixture. A s a general thumb of rule, it is said to choose a sufficienly large value for K (« should be set high enough so that it does not affect the parameter extimates » in the documentation of the documentation of unmarked).  
However, by doing so, there is no guarantee that K is set to a large enough value or that the lambda estimate has stabilized to a realistic value. Opting for an automatic procedure looks attractive (i.e. automatic choice of K).  For the Poisson case , a covariance diagnostic may identify when infinite values of lambda-hat arise ; by contrast, when of if the diagnostic is not satisfied, K may be selected automatically, for example by ensuring that the Poisson upper tail probability is < 10−10, so that the value of K will adapt for successive iterations according to the estimate of lambda (details in Dennis et al. (2015) and Guillera-Arroita et al. (2012). According to Dennis, E.B., Morgan, B.J. and Ridout, M.S. (2015) this is a simpler and preferable alternative to fitting the model for successively larger values of K until estimates appear to stabilize. 
Eventually, as an alternative, the multivariate Poisson model conveniently avoids the requirement to select an upper bound K as proposed in Dennis, E.B., Morgan, B.J. and Ridout, M.S. (2015).  
However, for those wishing to visualize the behaviour of the process according to increasing values of K, I proposed the following piece of code, for the three implemented distribution in unmarked so far (namely NB, P and ZIP).   
In the example used, you can check that NB mixture produce infinite estimates of abundance…  
References :    
Dennis, E.B., Morgan, B.J. and Ridout, M.S. (2015), Computational aspects of N-mixture models. Biom, 71: 237-246.     
Guillera-Arroita, G., Ridout, M. S., Morgan, B. J. T., and Linkie, M. (2012). Models for species-detection data collected along transects in the presence of abundance-induced heterogene ity and clustering in the detection process. Methods in Ecology and Evolution 3, 358–367     
